allahu akbar, alhamdulillah, rabbil ʿalamin,
ar-rahmāni, ar-raḥīn, mālik yawm al-deen,
hiyā ka n'aʿbud wa hiyā ka nastahīn,
ehdīn al-sirāṭa l-mustaqīm,
sirāṭa l-ladīn anʿamta ʿalayhim,
ghayri l-mawdūb ʿalayhim.
As-salāmu ʿalaykum wa ʿarḥmatu ʿAllāhi wa ʿbarakātu.
بسم الله والحمد لله والصلاة والسلام
على عبد الله ورسوله محمد
وعلى آله وأصحابه أجمعين
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
We thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
for giving us this beautiful month of Ramadan.
And as you know,
the month of Ramadan is the month of the Quran.
It is the month where we study the Quran,
we listen to it, we try to understand it,
we put it into practice and we convey it to others.
Every deed that we engage in in this month is multiplied.
You and I know that.
A farad act, the reward of it is multiplied.
A sunnah act, the reward of it
gets right up to a farad and perhaps beyond,
depending on your intention.
My beloved brothers and sisters,
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to make us from amongst those
who take this month seriously.
For it is a gift,
it might be the last Ramadan
we are going to see in our lives.
And we have seen Ramadans in the past.
We are lucky to see tonight
if Allah wants, we may not see tomorrow night.
And this is the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
In the past, my beloved brothers and sisters,
we have been through translation
of various verses of the Quran.
And we have been through
the reasons of revelations
of the verses of the Quran in brief.
And we have been through
stories of the Prophets.
We have been through
subjects within the noble Quran
over the years.
And this year, as you would perhaps know,
we have to complete the stories of the Prophets
by the story of the greatest of all Prophets
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So it was only befitting
that we dedicated the entire month
to the story of this messenger,
peace be upon him.
Whereas when it came to the other messengers,
a night or two or three was enough.
When it comes to Rasulullah
salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
we being his ummah,
it is only befitting
that we take our time
to go through the life
of the most blessed of all creatures,
the high and the loftiest in rank
of all the creatures of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
We ask Allah to grant us
the understanding of the gift that we have.
The gift that we have of being mu'mineen,
believing in Allah alone.
The gift that we have of being the ummah
of the highest of creation.
These are two gifts of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
that He selects and chooses people to give them.
So we have been carefully chosen
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to give us this gift of His.
And wallahi, if we look at it
and if we understand it,
we will be able to recognize a gift of Allah
and become the beloved of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
May Allah make us those who love Him
and may He love us in return.
Ameen.
My beloved brothers and sisters,
it is very important for us
to go through an introduction.
And this introduction would start with
the importance of learning
the history of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
What does it do and what will it do to me
if I study the life of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
Point number one.
The first point that I want to raise.
It increases my love for him sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
And at the same time,
it increases my love for his maker
who has made me as well.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
So by studying the seerah,
by studying the life of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and his history,
it will increase our love for Allah and His rasool.
We will understand how Allah has chosen
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and how we were chosen to be from amongst his followers.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has blessed us
as Allah says
Allah has favored the believers
by sending to them a messenger from amongst them.
يَتْلُوا عَلَيْهِمْ آيَاتِهِ
Reading and reciting his verses.
He came down,
he did not bring anything from his pocket.
Allah says
He did not utter anything from his desires or lusts or fancies.
Everything he said was revealed and inspired by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Sometimes you will find Allah admonished him.
Not because he said something from his pocket,
but because Allah inspired him to say something
for us to learn later on.
That if you were to make an error
or if you were to say something that required admonition,
how should you react to that admonition?
A lot of us feel bad when we are told.
A lot of us feel very bad when we are told.
We will go through the life of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and see how he the perfect reacted when he was corrected
and when he was told may Allah make us from those who follow.
Remember one thing,
we always harp on about how important it is to follow the messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
How will we know it if we haven't gone through his life?
Subhanallah.
Can I know how important it is
or can I know what to do in order to follow Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam's message
if I don't even know how he reacted?
So this is the beauty of studying the Seerah.
It draws you closer to Allah.
It makes you a proper Muslim.
It makes you a person who is now able to surrender
after he has read, after he has listened,
after he or she has understood.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
Then we will follow his example.
And at the same time, our love for him will increase.
And at the same time, our love for his companions will increase
because they were ready to give up their lives for the sake of Allah.
In fact, many of them gave their lives up for the sake of Allah.
Allah says in Surah Al-Ahzab,
من المؤمنين رجال صدقوا ما عاهدوا الله عليه
فمنهم منقضا نحبه
ومنهم إن ينتظر
وما بدلوا تبديلا
From amongst the men, from amongst the believers,
they are men who have fulfilled their promise to Allah.
They have been truthful upon their word to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
What they promised Allah?
We'll give our lives.
Some of them have already given their lives
and the others are in waiting.
This verse was revealed at the time of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us
to sacrifice at least a bit of our time in the month of Ramadan
and outside Ramadan as well, at least to fulfill our salah.
A few days ago, someone was showing me how
people have been dying in most blessed positions of salah.
One man in ruku'a, one man as he's starting salah,
one man on the mimbar just before he got on the musallah
to be the leader of Salatul Jumu'ah.
He passed away in this country.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant him Jannah.
But the question is we listen about people
who have passed away in positions of salah.
Do we even read our salah to start with?
That's the question.
Do we even read our salah?
So what chances do we have to die in the position of sujood
when we don't even make that sajda?
By learning the seerah of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
we will become regular with our duties unto Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
because we will see how they achieved success
through following the messenger salallahu alayhi wasalam.
This afternoon, I spoke in Jumu'ah
and I mentioned something very important, Salatul Jumu'ah.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has blessed us in every single way.
We have the seerah of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam.
We have the month of Ramadan.
If we don't make use of this, wallahi it carries on.
We are the ones who missed the train.
So Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala also has made mention
the various details of the life of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam.
Every detail, the names, the places, his childhood,
his adulthood and so on.
Today, we have superheroes and to mention some of them,
in fact, this is the house of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
But we all know that the football stars, we know them.
Our children know them.
They know who are their girlfriends astaghfirullah.
They know the whole history of the golfer,
that one of the top golfers in the world.
What happened to him?
What were the names of the women in his life
and what exactly he did and they did?
They know everyone and they know so much of them.
They know their team.
They wear the t-shirts of the team.
Even if it has a devil drawn on it, they don't mind.
Am I right?
These are Muslim children because they are following.
They will cut their hair like baboons
in order to look like someone
who is just able to kick a ball on the globe.
Allahu akbar.
For your information, the whole globe is like a ball.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
But when you ask them about the names of the companions
of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam,
very rarely will they give them to you.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala use this month of Ramadan
to motivate us and our children.
Instead of them sitting and watching cartoons,
may they be motivated to sit
and to listen to the seerah of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam.
Then it is important for us also in our lives
to look at how we should be as a husband
because Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam's example was unique.
Allah says
لَقَدْ كَانَ لَكُمْ فِي رَسُولِ اللَّهِ
أُسْوَةٌ حَسَنَةٌ لِمَن كَانَ يَرْجُ اللَّهِ
لِمَن كَانَ يَرْجُ اللَّهَ وَالْيَوْمَ الْآخِرِ
وَذَكَرَ اللَّهَ كَفِيرًا
There is another verse in surah al-ahzab.
Allah says indeed,
in the life of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
is a perfect example for those who are looking forward
to the meeting with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and those who are looking forward to the last day.
How many of us are looking forward to meeting with Allah,
to meeting with Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam
and the others?
A lot of us are clinging to earth
and we cling to earth in a way
that we usurp the wealth of people.
We hate people for no reason besides a few dollars and cents.
And what happens?
We stop talking to our own brothers and sisters
because of some little monetary issue.
Why should that be the case?
If you want, here follow the example of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam
as a husband, as a father,
as a person who was a leader,
as a man at times of war.
They say he was just at times of war
and he was very merciful even at the same time,
the time of war.
Look at what happened when he entered Makkah al-Mukarramah
and he had a vast army.
The people of Makkah were now shocked.
They looked at the numbers and he says,
Oh people of Quraysh.
And they were at his disposal.
He could have done anything.
Oh you who killed a lot of my companions and relatives.
What do you think I'm going to do to you today?
They were silent.
Some of them answered,
Well, we hope goodness because you are a good man,
a son of a good man.
Suddenly, you know people are good.
Why? Because now we're at their mercy.
People become good when you're at their mercy.
You know, I remember a true story.
When I was at school, there was a young boy
and he was so thin and everyone used to bully him.
So he one day decided in the school holidays
to inject himself with all the proteins
and to start pumping weights, literally.
And he came back just about one and a half months later,
huge, and he looked at the guys who were bullying him.
They all started greeting him.
They all became his friends.
Why?
Because he would probably lift them up with one finger.
Allahu Akbar.
But moments before that, what happened?
They used to bully the same youngster.
Today, he's a big man.
Nobody dare take his name.
Why? Because of size.
So here Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
what happened?
They persecuted them,
meaning they persecuted him and his companions.
And the day when he came into Makkah al-Mukarramah,
do you know what happened?
He asked them the question,
What do you think I'm going to do to you today?
Then he says,
You guys can carry on.
You people can carry on.
You are free.
No retribution today.
I will tell you what the Prophet Yusuf,
Joseph may peace be upon him,
told his brothers.
I'm holding nothing against you today.
No retribution, nothing, carry on.
How many of us can do that to our own brothers
and sisters and family members?
I think we as Muslims find it difficult.
So this is why when we study the Seerah,
it softens our hearts towards our own people
and it softens our heart in a way that we learn.
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
he was a judge between people.
How did he rule?
He at the same time was a da'i.
He called people to Islam.
How did he call people to Islam?
He called people to goodness.
We will be going through that.
He, so many of his companions memorized the Quran.
How did he achieve that?
Most of them were adults.
Today our children are memorizing the Quran masha'Allah.
We got to beat the daylights out of them
in order for them to know what is next and so on.
A lot of the times,
this is what people think if this all about.
You find the Sheikh sitting, the Imam sitting
with one big stick.
Where was the stick of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam?
And yet his students, most of them were adults.
The sahabah radiallahu anhum,
what was their age?
They were adults.
So adult literacy,
although they were unlettered,
look at the love with Nabi sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
taught his own people.
Then we have also through the seerah
and through the life of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
we come to learn the beauty of the Quran,
the reasons of revelation
because as you know,
the Quran was revealed separately.
It did not come down just in book form,
23 years over which the Quran was revealed.
As the incidents occurred,
verses came down.
the verses came down.
And this is why it's important to know these stories
so you would know why the verse came down.
When you know why the verse came down,
as you are reciting it,
you will actually smile
because now you know names
and you know places
and you know why a verse is there.
And you also know that this verse is a lesson for me
today in my life.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
So we have so many things to learn
from Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
Then very important matter,
how was he with his enemies?
He had from amongst his own people
who claimed to be his own people,
those who were not Muslim,
but they were just pretending.
Pretending a man like Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salul.
He was known as Rasul al-Munafiqin,
the head of the hypocrites.
And Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
dealt with him in a very very professional way.
He put him in one corner.
The man couldn't move this way,
he couldn't move that way.
Look, even the politicians have a page
to take from Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
How did he deal with his people?
Imagine, a man unlettered in the middle of a desert,
in the midst of people who could not read or write.
It is Allah who sent amongst the unlettered
a messenger from them.
That means they were unlettered.
And He sent a messenger, one of them.
The bulk of them were unlettered.
It was a big deal to be able to read and write at that time.
And Allah says,
He sent a messenger from amongst them to them.
The point I'm raising is,
imagine, desert, unlettered,
no internet, no phone, no nothing,
no means of communication,
no fax, no telex,
no internet, no television, no nothing.
And yet, He changed the globe.
In a few years, today,
more than 2 billion people follow the message
of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
What powerful man.
Imagine what rules and regulations he followed.
They came from Allah.
And imagine he went to Ta'if, he was persecuted.
That's another point we learn
from the Seerah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
Whenever we are in difficulty,
pick up the pages of the Seerah,
the history of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
read what happened to him.
You will find that he suffered much more
than any one of us could ever suffer.
And this is why Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam
tells us with the blessed lips of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam in a hadith,
that those who will be tested the most
are those who are loved more by Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
And the next narration says,
the Prophets of Allah are tested the most.
And then those who are closest to them in example,
and then those who are next.
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam grant us the understanding.
So when you have problems in your life,
the way to ease the difficulties,
to read the Seerah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
and I make a dua to Allah,
I ask Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
Ya Allah, the people who are suffering across the globe today,
Ya Allah, and all the sufferings we face as well,
Ya Allah, grant us ease, Ya Allah.
The Seerah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
let it be a means of the comforting of our hearts and souls
going through the pages.
Let us learn lessons that soothe our souls,
that extinguish the flame that may be burning within our systems.
May Allah sallallahu alayhi wasallam grant us goodness.
So this is the Seerah.
What a blessed Seerah.
And it's important for us to create a thirst
in the hearts and minds of the people
before we actually end up speaking of His blessed birth,
sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam,
if we take a look,
his character, his conduct, his belief,
his acts of worship,
so much so we will come to learn
that Aisha radiallahu anha asked him a question,
O messenger, peace be upon him,
you stand in Salah at night until your feet are swollen
and yet you have no sin,
you have been forgiven,
you are going to be entering Paradise,
so can't you rest a little bit?
And he says, O Aisha,
أَفَلَا أَكُونَ عَبْدًا شَكُورًا
Can I not be,
should I not be a slave who is thankful to Allah?
I know the rank,
I know the status,
I've already got Jannah and so on,
but I want to thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Today let's be honest.
Alhamdulillah,
we do read our Salah,
but sometimes a bit lazily.
Sometimes we feel lazy.
In this cold city of Polokwani,
ask me how cold I feel.
Subhanallah,
coming from a much warmer place,
north of the border.
And believe me,
to make wudu with that cold water is a challenge.
But look at Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
he was already told about his rank,
he knew it.
He was a messenger.
Jibril alayhi salam used to come to him,
he used to stand in Salah until his feet were swollen.
Our feet only swell
when we take a long journey from here to Singapore by air.
Then you find the feet swelling
and then we have to rest with our feet up for a while.
Have our feet ever swollen that much through Salah?
Let's be honest.
Still we feel lazy.
People complain,
five minutes too much,
five minutes too little.
That's the test of Allah.
If your feet can swell once in your life
because of Salah,
wallahi you have followed the example,
the greatest example in existence.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us good health
and may He make our feet bear the Salah that we read
because our Salah is no comparison
to the Salah of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So those are the examples we follow.
His love,
his purity of the heart,
his love for sacrifice.
The sahabah radiallahu anhum,
if you take a look at those companions,
99 of them would give their lives
in order to build the life of one of them.
I'm sure you know the story of the companions
during one of the battles
where there was water required,
one needed it and he saw his brother had a need,
he passed it.
And the other one saw his brother had a need,
Until they lost their lives
in order to save the life of the next man.
Today,
99 of us would gather around one man
in order to destroy him.
That's the opposite.
See, totally opposite.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us.
May He grant us
that selflessness once again,
where we can sacrifice.
Allah praises the ansar.
Allah says
يُؤْثِرُونَ عَلَى أَنْفُسِهِمْ
وَلَوْ كَانَ بِهِمْ خَصَاصَهُ
The companions of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
give preference over themselves,
even if they are in dire need,
even if they are in dire need of that particular item,
they would still give it away.
Today, our zakah, to calculate it,
we become a little bit stingy.
What about the sadaqat, the voluntary charities?
You find small figures.
Alhamdulillah, it's good.
It's better than nothing.
But open your heart, spend.
And this is why the best dirham,
the best that is spent in the path of Allah
subhanahu wa ta'ala
is that which you spend whilst you are fearing poverty
and you're still spending.
That is now from the heart.
Allahu akbar.
When you're fearing,
hey, I might need this,
but no, this man needs it more.
Let me take a little bit of it and give him.
We sometimes are not even ready to share
with our own brothers and sisters.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us a deep understanding.
So now, if you look at Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam's life
and you look at how the Islamic nation developed,
you will be able to study it
and undoubtedly everyone on the globe has a lesson,
a lesson to learn from it,
how Islam developed.
What is it that will develop Islam?
What is it that will develop the men?
And what is it that will drop them?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not make us
from amongst those who drop,
but rather may he make us from those
who develop ourselves at all times.
And this is why Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says
when he speaks about
granting us power, authority on the earth
and making us able to fulfill our religion
without any fear on the globe.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says,
قُلْ أَطِيعُ اللَّهَ وَأَطِيعُ الرَّسُولِ
Say, follow Allah, follow his messenger.
فَإِنْ تَوَلَّوْ فَإِنَّمَا عَلَيْهِ مَا حُمِّلْ
وَعَلَيْكُمْ مَا حُمِّلْتُمْ
وَإِنْ تُطِيعُهُ تَهْتَدُو
وَمَا عَلَى الرَّسُولِ إِلَّا الْبَلَاغُ الْمُبِينَ
Beautiful verses where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is saying
that if they turn away,
then you are responsible for fulfilling your duty,
they are responsible for fulfilling their duty.
And if they are to follow,
subhanallah, Allah will grant them.
They will be guided.
And remember,
the messenger's duty is only to deliver the message.
Once he delivers the message, it's up to us to take heed.
And this message is applicable not only today,
but up to the end of time.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from those
who appreciate and understand before it is too late.
And this is why the very next verse Allah says,
وَعَدَ اللَّهُ الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا مِنْكُمْ وَعَمِلُوا الصَّالِحَاتِ
لَيَسْتَخْلِفَنَّهُمْ فِي الْأَرْقِ كَمَ اَسْتَخْلَفَ الَّذِينَ مِنْ قَبْنِهِمْ
Allah has promised those who believe and do good deeds from amongst you,
that He will grant you authority on land like He did to those before you.
You believe and you do good deeds.
And then Allah says,
and He will make it easy for you to fulfill your duties unto Allah on the earth.
No fear.
Alhamdulillah,
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to return those days to us.
Also, what is of utmost importance?
I would be failing if I did not utter this.
The qualities of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم,
we've spoken about his character and conduct and how we will go through it.
But what about his appearance?
He was created in such a way that some of his companions describe him.
Hassan ibn Thabit رضي الله عنه, who was a poet,
it is reported that from amongst his diwan,
amongst the poems that he recited,
one of them was connected to how he says,
you are so beautiful that it is as though you were created
according to how you wished to be created.
Imagine today if I'm sitting here and you know your nose and your eyes
and you might sit in front of a mirror for a moment and say,
oh, this is bent and that's straight and this is like this and that's...
Allah keeps it that way.
Everyone needs to thank Allah.
You have your unique identity.
Sometimes you go and change things, you actually mess things up.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant us goodness.
It's your identity, be happy.
No one notices the small things.
It's you who notice it more, you're looking too much in the mirror.
Just remove the mirrors from your home,
you'll be a happy man, a happy woman more like.
Allahu Akbar, it happens more to the females.
So Allah سبحانه وتعالى, well nowadays who knows,
it can happen to the males also, becoming too conscious.
So Allah سبحانه وتعالى has created the best of creation
in such a way that just by looking at him, you would love him.
Subhanallah.
Abdullah ibn Salam رضي الله عنه, he was a Jewish rabbi.
When he saw Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم for the first time,
he said, as soon as I saw this face,
I knew this is not the face of a liar.
This man utters the truth.
He is the nabi and immediately that same majlis,
the same sitting, he had accepted Islam
because he heard the words of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
and he said, those are the words of a messenger.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى make us truthful.
And this is why I'd like to mention what Ibn Kathir رحمة الله عليه
says in the tafseer of the verse,
سيماهم في وجوههم من أثر السجود
their signs are on their faces, on their foreheads
from the sign of sujood.
You can see it from their faces that this man is pious.
Ibn Kathir رحمة الله عليه makes mention
of one of the tafseers.
And he says, one of the mufassireen have said
it is connected to your salah.
من حسنت صلاته في الليل حسن وجهه في النهار
Whoever's salah is beautiful by night,
their face becomes beautiful during the day.
الله أكبر
People look at you
and they see mashaAllah the nur on your face.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant us the nur
and may He make us from amongst those
who do not mistaken fair complexion for nur
because it's a sign of our weakness
where we think fair in complexion is nur.
Nay, you can have a man as dark as charcoal
who is full of nur,
but it needs one to recognize one.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى guide us
and make us from those who realize.
So that is the beauty of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
وَأَحْسَنُ مِنكَ لَمْ تَرَقَتُ عَيْنِ
more beautiful than you,
my eyes have never seen
وَأَجْمَلُ مِنكَ لَمْ تَلِدِ النِّسَاءُ
more beautiful than you,
who the women have never given birth to.
خُلِغْتَ مُبَرَّأً مِن كُلِّ عَيْبٍ
You have been created free from all flaws,
physical flaws.
كَأَنَّكَ خُلِغْتَ كَمَ تَشَاءُ
as though you have been created
how you wanted to be created.
صلى الله عليه وسلم
One of the points we learnt last year
when we were going through the stories
of the Prophets of Allah
may peace be upon them all.
Every one of them was good looking.
Every one of them had good features.
Every one of them was chosen
whilst they had, you know, pure proper health.
And if there was any little defect
for example of Musa عليه الصلاة والسلام's tongue
it was also part of the test of the people.
Tongue meaning,
you know Musa عليه الصلاة والسلام
heard his tongue when he was young.
So he had a little bit of a stutter.
That too Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
wanted to send his brother with him.
And this was the excuse that was used.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
grant us a deep understanding.
One of the reasons is
imagine if the Anbiya' of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
the messengers were such
that nobody wanted to look at them.
If that was the case
people would say,
no well that man you know
the way he is created by you O Allah
people didn't even want to look at him.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
not make us such
that people don't want to look at us.
With us it's connected to our link with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Then we look at
very importantly we move on to something.
The condition of the world at the time
of Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasalam
just before his birth.
What was around?
You had the Roman Empire.
The Roman Empire stretched
Asia, Syria
what we know as Palestine today
Egypt, North Africa
and it had its headquarters
in the East.
What is known today as Istanbul
Turkey
and it was known at that time as
Constantinople
the Byzantine Empire
was part of the Roman Empire
and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
makes mention of this in Surat al-Rum.
There is a whole surah in the Quran
named after the Romans.
They existed at the time.
They were there
and who else was there?
You had the Persians
in what we know today as Iran.
The Persians the bulk of them
were fire worshipers.
They used to oppress their women
in a very great way.
And as for the Romans
what happened to them?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
If you take a look at the story of Jesus
may peace be upon him.
You will find how the Romans persecuted him
and how they were tyrants
and how even the wars
that happened between them
they oppressed the working class
to a great degree.
There was a lot of strife.
They were dirty people
who did not know how to clean themselves.
Up to very recently
you find some of the kings of Europe even
were proud that once a month
they used to have a bath in public.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
Once a month you have a bath.
Allahu Akbar.
We thank Allah for sending Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
It's important for us to make mention of this
because you won't realize the gift
that we have
until you see the darkness that the globe was in.
A lot of what we see today as civilization
was brought by Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
They don't know.
Why?
They hijacked it.
They took it.
Then they blamed us to be the hijackers.
Allahu Akbar.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors.
So we have here
the Persians.
They used to worship the fire.
They used to worship many other things.
From amongst them also
we had some who worshiped idols
and some who worshiped people, hierarchy.
And there were so many different types of confused people.
If you look at the Romans after a while
when Christianity came down
you find every king that came
he changed the Bible.
And proudly they would say
King James version of the Bible.
That means this is a version of the Bible
which that king made
and he brought it forth.
Then another version of the Bible.
This man came.
Another man came.
He changed it.
That Pope came.
This is why today we have more than 36 different versions of the Bible.
The Christians themselves cannot unite upon one.
And we say this with due respect.
It's a fact.
So as things were changed
in order to suit the kings of the time
there was chaos and confusion.
People started adding and subtracting
until they raised Isa A.S.
or Jesus may peace be upon him
to the level of Godhood
and made him part of the trinity.
For your information
the Romans also fought
the Christian denominations fought each other.
They fought the Coptic Christians in Egypt as well.
Why?
Because of who was Jesus?
Was he a part of a trinity?
What happened to him?
So amongst the Christians they began to fight
because that king added something
this Pope added something
this one added
and the others are saying
but we don't know what we would term today Bid'ah.
It's something new.
It's innovated in the Deen.
It's come here.
We need to take it out
and wars took place.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
protect us from innovation.
Then you have the wars that took place
between the Romans and the Persians
and this is also mentioned in the Quran.
These wars were from a long time
and for your information
the Persians were considered more powerful
but each one feared the other
and sometimes this one won
sometimes that one won
and it took place for a long long time.
Then you have the Indian subcontinent
where we have the Hindus and the Buddhists
those who worship the Buddha
and the Hindus as you know high Iraqis
they worship people.
You have the clergy
the Brahman right at the top
and then you have the others coming down.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
safeguard us from worshiping people.
Inna allaha bata'atha muhammadan
liyukhrijal ibad
min ibadatil ibad
ila ibadatirabbil ibad
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
has sent Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
to remove people
from worshiping other worshipers
to worshiping the Rabb of the worshipers
the creator of everyone else.
So we are not supposed to be
worshiping the created
we only worship the creator.
When I put my head down on the ground
whom am I putting it down on the ground for?
Only the one who made me,
no one else.
Whoever made me
I owe him my head on the ground.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
accept it from us.
Then we have some of the other civilizations around
that are mentioned in the Quran
and some of the previous nations
that were within the Arabian Peninsula
you have the people of Saba in Yemen
and you have the people of Aad and Thamud
who were also in the peninsula
the people of Aad were in a place known as Ahqaf
slightly south of Mecca
or south of that part of the Arabian Peninsula
and the people of Thamud were slightly north
and these were the people
and as you know
there was also at that particular time
the Jews, the Christians, the fire worshipers
as I mentioned the Buddhists and so on
and then you have the people of Mecca
and the Arabs of the surroundings
who were they?
Who were they?
If we take a careful look
we will notice
that from a religious perspective
they worshiped idols
they believed in superstition
today a lot of us are superstitious
small things happen
we say no
if the black cat passes
then this is happening
if the owl sits on your roof
that's happening
if a crow comes this way
that happens
if we still have this jahiliya in us
and Allah says those were the pagan Arabs
they had a lot of superstition
small things happen
oh definitely this
you see the women comb their hair
when they comb their hair
they put it in a ball
some of it falls out
when they put it in the ball
sometimes the wind blows it
it's very light to a corner
and after a while
when they find their own hair in the corner
see someone's doing black magic here
Allahu akbar
typical
but sister it's your hair
the wind blew it on the side
what are you doing this for
why do you want to blame people
it's the jahiliya
may Allah protect us
this is why even those who think that
black magic has happened upon them
perhaps in the rare cases
it may be
how to help yourself
we will come through that
in the life of Muhammad
sallallahu alayhi wasallam
because it happened to him
so you have
they used to go to fortune tellers
at the time
anything small happens
go to a fortune teller
anything little happens
they would quickly run here and there
people want to tell
what's the future
there was a man who told me
that I was at one of the airports
and the man came to me and told me
I can tell you your future
so he is a Muslim
he says I don't want to know
no I can tell you
so this man walked with his wife
he took his wife and said
hey leave this man alone
and the man persisted
and he insisted
and he said I can tell you your future
and he sat down
with them
and this man Muslim
he says look please get away
I don't want to hear anything
he says no
I just charge very little
don't worry
I'll give you a discount
I'll charge you five dollars
whatever the figure was I can't recall
but the man started saying
oh you live this long
and this is what will happen
and you'll have this child and that
and the man
these people were not even bothered
they weren't even really listening
when he finished
he looks at the man says
right pay me
so this Muslim man told me
and I told him
I said you know what
you claim to know the future
you know so much of the future
you should have known
that I'm not paying you
Allahu Akbar
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
our difficulty
we still go to fortune tellers
we want to see what's going on
people go to witch doctors
and they don't realize
how the witch doctor works
it's very logical
logical meaning
we would be able to explain to you
how the jinn kind is used
as spirit
and called spirit mediums
where do they come from
how to talk to them
how to communicate them
how to use them
but all that in Islam is prohibited
we can explain it to you
and we know how it works
but it is prohibited
and we need to know this
we need to know this
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
wallahi
we have ahead of us
29 to 30 nights
and we have
a seerah of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
I don't wish to take up too much of your time
because you have to come back tomorrow
to listen to what more we have
and we will continue tomorrow
from where
insha'Allah making mention
of the people of Jahiliyyah
within the Arabian Peninsula
what they were involved in insha'Allah
when Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
chose for them
that this Nabi
will be raised from amongst them
and insha'Allah
I hope and I pray
we can realize the gift we are in today
we are sitting so pure
with our women
elevated to the highest level
neither are our women
being
conned by the liberation
or the word freedom today
nor are they being oppressed
but they are taught to fulfill their role
as Muslim women
and that we will come to realize
when we see both extremes
until we meet again tomorrow
if Allah gives us the life
and the opportunity to be here again
insha'Allah we meet
we say
wa sallallahu wa sallam
wa baraka ala nabina Muhammad
subhanallahi bi hamdihi
subhanaka allahum wa bi hamdik
nashhadu alla ilaha illa anta
nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayki